The final project is to plan, design, build, and publish a small-scale web site.
Instead of a Final Exam, you will be developing a Web site consisting at least 7 to 10 web pages written in HTML
elements.
The final project will include all HTML elements that the course discussed. They will include, but are not limited to
internal and external hyperlinks, images, tables, forms, JavaScript, and CSS. The structure and the content of the web
site are up to the student.
NOTE:

• The navigation system should function to show the user where they are and where they can go. You should
plan and show navigation to other parts of the site, even if the links are not active.

• One of these pages should contain a "function" component that uses JavaScript.

• The pages you produce should be "ready for launch". Your pages should be done well and should work
properly.

Some examples of things you might consider:
o Well-organized file structure
o Re-use of CSS, JS, and images
o Include at least one table that shows tabular data
o Include at least one form
o Consistency throughout pages in header, footer, navigation, and potentially other elements
o Well-chosen titles that stand on their own
o "meta" keywords and description appropriate for each page
o Print CSS rules
o Custom error documents



The final project is due during the final week of the semester.
Some basic guidelines as you continue working on your project:

• Use a directory system (Links to an external site.). The site needs to be organized in directories/folders
according to the nature of relatedness to each other. You should create a new folder for the final project on
your computer. Back up the folder weekly to a flash drive or online.

• The file name of the default or the home page should be either index.htm or index.html. Be sure to build
your site in a new folder (directory), and the index page should be inside the folder.
Check out these sites for inspirations:

• You may check out Web sites offering templates such as Open Source Web Design

• Top HTML Projects with Source Code: https://www.interviewbit.com/blog/html-projects/
Consider, however, that the work, and the theme, and the content must be your own work – you can “borrow” code but
will not get full credit if you do not have any content that is unique to you.
GUIDELINES FOR PLANNING YOUR WEB SITE:
What will the theme of the Web site be?

• It should be something that you are interested.

• You may get ideas from the Case Problems and Additional Cases that are at the end of each tutorial and at
the end of the textbook.

• Avoid any offensive or potentially illegal contents.
Development:

Where to look for information and materials:
• Talk to people who know about the topic.
• Search the Internet for the topic you are considering.
Where to save the collected materials:
• Create a new folder for documentation and information.
• Create a new folder for images and other files that you may use.
• In your browser, create a new bookmark list folder for the Web site project. Consider
using Delicious (Links to an external site.)or Google Bookmarks (Links to an external site.)?
If you are creating a Web site for others, e.g., your work or friends:
• Put them into work right away.
• Ask their input, such as design, text materials, and images. Provide them a few prototypes on
computer or even on paper. In this way, they will know exactly what they want, and you can tell
them, in advance, what they will get at the end. It will reduce a lot of frustration on either side.
Get images such as logo and their photos a.s.a.p.
• Organize images in folders.
Correct Spelling:
• Avoid any grammar and spelling error.
• One way to check spelling of your HTML pages is
1. Copy and paste your text to Microsoft Word or other word processing applications.
2. Check the spelling; then copy and paste the text back to the Notepad.
Accessibility
• Check accessibility. You may use accessibility checker such as WAVE for Google
Chrome http://wave.webaim.org/extension/ (Links to an external site.)




FINAL PROJECT Grading Rubric
Web pages constructed with CSS including element, class, and ID selectors for formatting and effects. At least one
external CSS file.
(20% Weighting)
Good page design, color scheme, page layout, accessibility, coherency among all elements.
(20% Weighting)
At least two distinctive TABLEs.
(10% Weighting)
At least one form using various form elements such as checkboxes and menu items.
(10% Weighting)
Navigation within the site. External links.
(10% Weighting)
Use of JavaScript and/or jQuery at least in one file/location.
(10% Weighting)
Well organized site structure. Image files are in a sub folder. The home page is named as ...
(10% Weighting)
Using Multimedia (e.g., YouTube clip)
(10% Weighting)




Essentials:

    7-10 html pages DONE 
    2 distinct tables 
    1 form that uses various form elements 
    navigation within the website DONE
    navigation outside the website DONE
    multimedia clip (youtube vid) DONE
    use of JavaScript and/or jQuery at least in one file/location. DONE 


    Germany, Canada, South Korea, Denmark, Australia, and Colombia